DTM 1019.1.0 change log (#1540)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/changes-applications/cl-dtm.md

> ### October 2023

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### December 2023
```

#### -Change- Improved visualization of steps skipped during asset instance creation

> Non-mandatory steps that are skipped during creation of an asset instance are now distinguished by a grey colored ticks. [CTM-654]

Author: Assets are created using hierarchical blueprint called Asset model. Using a single asset model one can create n number of asset instances.

> Non-mandatory steps that are skipped during creation of an asset instance are now distinguished by a grey colored ticks. [CTM-654]

Reviewer 2: @spau6 thank you for clarifying

> Non-mandatory steps that are skipped during creation of an asset instance are now distinguished by a grey colored ticks. [CTM-654]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Non-mandatory steps that are skipped during the creation of an asset instance are now distinguished by a grey-colored tick. [CTM-654]
```

#### -Change- Immediate feedback from validation of Key field

> Immediate feedback from validation of Key field upon value entry without requiring a click outside the field during creation of asset model, asset property and asset. With debouncing implementation, API requests are triggered after a brief delay following the last key entry, significantly reducing the frequency of calls and enhancing the responsiveness of the application. [CTM-651]

Reviewer 2: @spau6 What do you mean with "without  requiring a click outside the field"?

> Immediate feedback from validation of Key field upon value entry without requiring a click outside the field during creation of asset model, asset property and asset. With debouncing implementation, API requests are triggered after a brief delay following the last key entry, significantly reducing the frequency of calls and enhancing the responsiveness of the application. [CTM-651]

Author: Earlier one has to click outside the key field for the validation to happen but now with de-bouncing this is enhanced

> Immediate feedback from validation of **Key** field upon value entry without requiring a click outside the field during creation of asset model, asset property and asset. With de-bouncing implementation, the API requests are triggered after a brief delay following the last key entry, significantly reducing the frequency of calls and enhancing the responsiveness of the application. [CTM-651]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the creation of asset models, asset properties and assets, upon entering input in the **Key** field, immediate feedback is now shown if the input is invalid - no need to click outside the field. With de-bouncing implementation, the API requests are triggered after a short delay following the last key entry, significantly reducing the frequency of calls and enhancing the responsiveness of the application. [CTM-651]
```

Author: immediate feedback is now shown _if the input is invalid_

In the above statement we cannot use _if the input is invalid_, as this is independent of validation part

Reviewer: Ok, but what kind of feedback is shown then? I removed this part.

Author: Save button will get enabled immediately without making an outside click.

Reviewer 3: @spau6, @BeateRixen  , I think it is both. If the value entered is invalid, it will immediately show the error message and if the value is valid and all the required fields in the form are filled, it enables the save button. Earlier we had to do an extra click to see either the error message or the save button enabled.

Author: @BeateRixen I agree with @lra-sag, but we cannot just mention  **if the input is invalid**

Reviewer: @spau6 This has already been removed. But "immediate feedback is shown" should be explained better. I would add exactly the information provided by @lra-sag. "If the value entered is invalid, an error message will be shown, and if the value is valid and all required fields in the form are filled, the **Save** button will be enabled.

Author: Sure

#### -Change- Improved readability in Localization screen

> Renamed <b>Keys</b> to <b>Identifier</b> and <b>Terms</b> to <b>Translation</b> in Localization page. [CTM-642]

Author: Can we call them as fields

![image](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-docs/assets/109800638/fae29cd4-119d-4e93-881d-1d0179cefb5d)

> Renamed <b>Keys</b> to <b>Identifier</b> and <b>Terms</b> to <b>Translation</b> in Localization page. [CTM-642]

Reviewer: No, these are column headers. Since they are formatted bold I assumed you talk about fields. Please be as precise as possible in the release notes. Do you also format column headers bold throughout the documentation? I think we format them in quotes in other places? What are the rules here @MWindel?

> Renamed <b>Keys</b> to <b>Identifier</b> and <b>Terms</b> to <b>Translation</b> in Localization page. [CTM-642]

Reviewer 2: @spau6 @BeateRixen Column names in the UI are formatted in bold. I will change the suggestion to fit the column headings.

> #### -Change- Improved readability in Localization screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### -Change- Improved readability in Localization page
```

#### -Change- Improved action buttons in Localization screen

> Realigned Edit/Delete options for translations under localization screen. [CTM-696]

Reviewer 2: @spau6 The icon is only labelled "Edit", how can you delete an entry ?

> Realigned Edit/Delete options for translations under localization screen. [CTM-696]

Author: Their exist both edit and delete options PFA
![Uploading image.png…]()

> Realigned Edit/Delete options for translations under localization screen. [CTM-696]

Author: ![image](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-docs/assets/109800638/519507b5-c9ed-4e9c-bca6-4297fa6828d3)

> Realigned Edit/Delete options for translations under localization screen. [CTM-696]

Author: translation added in Localization screen will have both Edit and delete options

#### -Change- Improved validation for number property during asset instance creation

> Added validation to handle only 'E' (exponent) entered for a property of type Number during asset creation. [CTM-681]

Reviewer: @spau6 What does that mean? Is is no longer allowed to only enter 'E'?

Author: ![image](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-docs/assets/109800638/c7d1db52-e43f-44d8-b840-7eee17f64c07)
only valid exponential values are allowed
![image](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-docs/assets/109800638/6b983baa-3fcd-4068-9717-777e5c99540c)

Author: yep, modified

> Asset property of type number is now handled for invalid exponential values during asset creation. [CTM-681]

Reviewer: @spau6 It is still not clear to me and probably also not to users what this means: "is now handled for invalid exponential values". What exactly does it do?

#### -Change- Default values of asset properties available in assets bulk import template

> If a default value is set for a property, the bulk import template will have it mentioned against the corresponding property. [CTM-702]

Author: yes

> If a default value is set for a property, the bulk import template will have it mentioned against the corresponding property. [CTM-702]

Author: ![image](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-docs/assets/109800638/6550b2f5-fb7e-4f02-8ea0-a215f4413eb3)

#### -Change- DTM version moved under Platform info section

> The DTM version is now in the right drawer under the Platform info section [CTM-677]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The DTM version is now in the **Platform info** section in the **User** menu. [CTM-677]
```

#### -Change- Role based access for bulk import of assets

> Access to Bulk import feature can now be controlled using Cumulocity Global and Inventory roles. [CTM-649,CTM-729]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access to the Bulk import feature can now be controlled using Cumulocity IoT Global and Inventory roles. [CTM-649,CTM-729]
```

#### -Change- Implemented ordering of key value pairs in complex properties

> 

Reviewer 4: This is not a change, this is the feature, CTM-846, which has CTM-902 as one of the USTs

Author: updated

> Key value pairs in a Complex property can now be ordered as needed by entering the desired order in the Order field [CTM-902]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Key value pairs in a Complex property can now be ordered as needed by entering the desired order in the **Order** field [CTM-902]
```

> Key value pairs in a Complex property can now be ordered as needed by entering the desired order in the **Order** field. [CTM-846]

Author: It is in general referring to properties which are complex

> Key value pairs in a Complex property can now be ordered as needed by entering the desired order in the **Order** field. [CTM-846]

Reviewer: If this is not a proper name it should not be capitalized.

> Key value pairs in a Complex property can now be ordered as needed by entering the desired order in the **Order** field. [CTM-846]

Author: PFA 
![image](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-docs/assets/109800638/6af7ba85-baca-4e77-aa9a-0776bbb9db15)

> Key value pairs in a Complex property can now be ordered as needed by entering the desired order in the **Order** field. [CTM-846]

Reviewer: Yes, but only because this the first letter. Should not be capitalized iwithin texts.

### October 2023

#### -Change- Improved the visualization of skipped steps during asset instance creation

During asset instance creation skipped steps which are not mandatory are marked with grey coloured ticks. [CTM-654]

#### -Change- Asset entities creation page is implemented with UI debouncing to validate key field.

Implemented UI debouncing to validate key in asset model, asset and property creation page. This will improve the situation where save button is disabled until the focus is removed from the key field while creating these entities. [CTM-651]

#### -Change- Improved readability in Localization screen

Renamed <b>Keys</b> to <b>Identifier</b> and <b>Terms</b> to <b>Translation</b> in Localization screen. [CTM-642]

#### -Change- Improved action buttons in Localization screen

Realigned Edit/Delete options for translations under localization screen. [CTM-696]

#### -Change- Improved validation for number property during asset instance creation

Implemented validation when only E is entered as a value for Number property during asset instance creation. [CTM-681]

#### -Change- Bulk assets import to use logged in user instead of service user to import the assets

> Implemented the bulk assets import to use logged in user instead of service user to import the assets also to enable inventory role access for bulk import. [CTM-729]

Reviewer 3: This change is internal and transparent to the user. Please confirm if this is required in the change log

Author: removed the content

> #### -Change- Considered default values for asset properties in case of bulk import of assets

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### -Change- Default values of asset properties available in assets bulk import template
```

> If a default value is set for a property, then the bulk import template will have it mentioned against the corresponding property. [CTM-702]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a default value is set for a property, the bulk import template will have it mentioned against the corresponding property. [CTM-702]
```

> #### -Change- Moved DTM version under platform info section

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### -Change- DTM version moved under Platform info section
```

> Moved DTM version on the right drawer under platform info section. [CTM-677]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The DTM version is now in the right drawer under the Platform info section [CTM-677]
```

> #### -Change- Inventory role implementation for DTM assets

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### -Change- Role based access for bulk import of assets
```

> DTM UI and microservice is implemented with inventory role support for assets. [CTM-649]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Access to Bulk import feature can now be controlled using Cumulocity Global and Inventory roles. [CTM-649]
```

#### -Change- Implemented ordering of key value pairs in complex properties

> Complex properties are now implemented with ordering for key value pairs. [CTM-902]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Key value pairs in a Complex property can now be ordered as needed by entering the desired order in the Order field [CTM-902]
```

> #### -Change- Asset hierarchy dropdown with search option

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### -Change- Improved asset model selection dropdown with search option
```

> Implemented asset hierarchy dropdown in asset creation page with searchable option. [CTM-771]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Asset model selection dropdown during asset creation is now searchable. [CTM-771]
```

#### -Change- Modified DTM URLs to match naming conventions of DTM entities.

DTM URLs are now modified to reflect the naming conventions followed for DTM entities. [CTM-689]

> #### -Feature- Assets are added with location details

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### -Feature- Assign a location to an asset
```

> Location is added as a default property with Altitude, Latitude and Longitude. If this property is associated with any asset model then assets are created with location details [CTM-615]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Introduced **Location**,  a default property available out of the box. Add the Location property to the desired asset model to assign co-ordinates or select the location on a map while creating an asset. [CTM-615]
```
